IdeaHub is an application that aims to facilitate collaboration and interaction between ordinary citizens and industry to produce products not yet available on the market. IdeaHub would provide individuals with a platform to publish their ideas and tools to foster these ideas in association with others. Companies would pick up these ideas and engineer them.

The ideas posted on IdeaHub need not be tangible, unique, or complete. One of the main focuses of IdeaHub is to create virtual communities where users can discuss and advance half-baked ideas. Ideas need not be overly complicated, new, or innovative. For example, a person may want a sofa bed in a specific shade of green. In this situation, another user of IdeaHub may link to a resource to acquire such an item, or a company would take up the idea to execute it. An author may write an entire novel from the plot idea of a random person they've never met before.

Such a platform as IdeaHub would foster togetherness and creativity. Imagination arises in a collaborative environment, which is not always possible. History shows us that innovation spawns from the teamwork of individuals of different talents. IdeaHub would enable such an environment where users gain satisfaction from helping to create the objects they use rather than passively consuming them. Peer production allows people to be engaged.

People would no longer have to hassle over unnecessary formalities or undergo a colossal learning curve to bring their ideas to fruition. Entrusting these ideas to professionals in the industry would allow the experts to manage the logistics of the product, and quality products would reach the market sooner. The input of multiple perspectives would lead to the production of more inclusive and accessible goods. IdeaHub will assist enterprises in identifying in-demand goods and services.

A key feature of IdeaHub would be that it should be freely accessible to individuals around the globe, free of charge. IdeaHub implements particular measures to retain accountability and security and ensure it is accessible to all age groups. Viewing ideas would never require anything other than visiting the site. But an account is required to post, contribute to, and comment on posts. Two mechanisms that may work jointly to achieve this goal are third-party fact-checkers and creditability scores. Creditability scores may be markers to showcase the validity of a post. One indicates that the post contains verified facts, while another demonstrates that a post includes non-verifiable or questionable facts. The creators of discreditable posts would receive emails on how to edit their posts. Other social media platforms have already implemented these measures.
